In this lesson we're going to talk about
various graphical editors available in
the Linux operating system.
So far you've learned about command
line editors that are appropriate to
use when you connect
to a server via SSH or
when you're using a terminal
emulator application.
If you're running Linux as
a desktop operating system,
you also have access to graphical editors.
emacs not only works at the command line
but it also has a graphical mode as well.
gedit is the default text editor for
the Gnome desktop environment.
It's very similar to Notepad.
gvim is the graphical version of vim.
kedit is similar to gedit,
it's the default editor for
the KDE desktop environment.
If you are looking for
a Microsoft Word replacement,
consider AbiWord or LibreOffice.
LibreOffice not only includes
a word processor, but
it's a complete office suite.
It contains a spreadsheet,
a database and presentation software.
If you're looking for
a source code editor to help in computer
programming look at an editor like Kate.
There are other option available like
Geany or jEdit or even Sublime Text.
This is the CentOS distribution
with a known desktop environment.
Let's look at the default text editor for
Gnome.
Which is gedit.
It's a fairly simple text editor but
it gets the job done.
I'll open up a file.
Click on save to save and
we'll go ahead and close out this program.
emacs also has a graphical mode.
All the key bindings work like they
do in the command line mode but
with a graphical mode you also will
have access to a menu and a tool bar.
So just like the other text editor,
we can open up a file, and Ctrl+E
will work to take us to the end of the
line like we were in command line mode.
Do File > Save.
Let's look at the graphical
version of vim.
Again that key strokes that work
on command line version of VI,
also work in the graphical version.
Type write to write a file.
I'll leave an exit with Q.
Libre Office is an office suite.
Let's look at the text editor first.
It's very similar to Microsoft Word.
We'll close out this application.
Let's look at the spreadsheet program.
Calc.
There's also presentation software.
There are a variety of text editors and
word processors for Linux.
emacs and
vi both have graphical counterparts.
Sometimes you may not have access
to a graphical environment for
example when you're connecting
to a server over SSH.
In that instance you have to
use a command line editor.
However if you do have access
to the Linux desktop and
graphic environment feel free to use
a graphical text editor of your choice.